##tags
hard
beef
stove
##ingredients
2, tbsp, olive oil
2.5, lb, stew beef (no bone)
.75, tsp, salt
1, , Black pepper
3, cloves, garlic
2, , onions
6, oz, bacon
3, tbsp, flour
1, can, Guinness Beer
4, tbsp, tomato paste
3, cups, chicken broth
3, , carrots
2, large, celery stalks
2, , bay leaves
3, sprigs, thyme
6, , potatoes
1, tub, sour cream
1, package, dinner rolls

##recipe
Irish Beef and Guiness Stew
INGREDIENTS
2 tbsp olive oil
2.5 lb / 1.25 kg beef chuck ,brisket or any other slow cooking beef (no bone)
¾ tsp salt
Black pepper
3 garlic cloves, minced
2 onions, chopped (brown, white or yellow)
6 oz / 180g bacon, speck or pancetta, diced
3 tbsp plain flour
1 x 440ml / 14.9oz can Guinness Beer (Note 1)
4 tbsp tomato paste
3 cups / 750 ml chicken stock/broth
3 carrots, peeled and cut into 1.25 cm / ½" thick pieces
2 large celery stalks, cut into 2cm / 1" pieces
2 bay leaves
3 sprigs thyme (or sub with 1 tsp dried thyme leaves)
6 potatoes
sour cream
milk
butter
dinner rolls

INSTRUCTIONS
Cut the beef into 5cm/2" chunks. Pat dry then sprinkle with salt and pepper.
Heat oil in a heavy based pot over high heat. Add beef in batches and brown well all over. Remove onto plate. Repeat with remaining beef.
Remove pot from heat to cool slightly and lower heat to medium. If the pot is looking dry, add oil.
Return pot to heat, add garlic and onion. Cook for 3 minutes until softening, then add bacon.
Cook until bacon is browned then add flour. Stir flour into the mixture.
Add Guinness. Mix well (to ensure flour dissolves well) then add remaining ingredients and return beef into the pot (including any juices).
Add enough water so the beef & veggies are almost fully covered - see photo in post.
Cover, bring to simmer then lower heat so it is bubbling gently. Cook for 2 hours - the beef should be pretty tender by now. Remove lid then simmer for a further 30 - 45 minutes or until the beef falls apart at a touch and the sauce has reduced and thickened slightly.
Skim off fat on surface. Adjust salt and pepper to taste. Remove bay leaves and thyme.

Boil potatoes until soft.  Mix with butter, milk, and sour cream to taste.  Serve with rolls.
