##tags
dinner
summer
italian
vegetarian
easy
no cooking

##Ingredients
1, loaf, artisan bread
3, large, heirloom tomatoes
0.5, large, cucumber
1, medium, red or yellow bell pepper
0.5, medium, red onion
0.5, cup, olive oil
0.25, cup, red wine vinegar
0.5, teaspoon, salt
1, to taste, Pepper
0.5, cup, basil

## recipe
Ingredients
1 (12- to 16-ounce) loaf artisan bread (8 to 10 very full cups)
2 to 3 large heirloom tomatoes (3 pounds, about 8 cups chopped)
1/2 large cucumber
1 medium red or yellow bell pepper
1/2 medium red onion
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup red wine vinegar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Pepper, to taste
1/2 cup thinly sliced basil
Equipment
Chef's knife
Cutting board
Mixing bowl
Jam jar, or a small bowl and whisk

Instructions
1. Slice the bread into 1-inch cubes: Slice or tear the bread into roughly 1-inch cubes.
I usually leave the crusts on, but you can remove them if you prefer.
You should have about 10 overflowing cups of bread.

2. Dry the bread: Spread the bread cubes over a baking sheet.
Leave uncovered overnight to stale and harden. Alternatively,
bake in a 300°F oven until hardened on the outside but still slightly soft in the middle, 15 to 20 minutes,
stirring once or twice during baking.

3. Chop the vegetables: Chop the tomatoes, cucumber, and bell pepper into bite-sized pieces.
Slice the onion into thin slices and soak in a bowl of cold water for 10 to 15 minutes while assembling the rest of the salad.

4. Make the vinaigrette: Combine the olive oil, red wine vinegar, salt, and a few grinds of fresh pepper in a jam jar.
Shake vigorously. Alternatively, combine ingredients in a small bowl and whisk to combine.

5. Combine the salad in a bowl: Combine the bread and chopped vegetables in a large mixing bowl.
Pour the vinaigrette over top and use a spatula to thoroughly combine.

6. Let the salad sit for 1/2 hour to 4 hours: Let the salad sit at least half an hour before serving, or up to 4 hours.
Stir occasionally so the juices and vinaigrette are evenly distributed.

7. Add basil and serve: Just before serving, stir in the basil.
This salad is best eaten the day it's made.